Add deployments store path arch decision (#1257)
threefoldtech/tfgrid-sdk-ts: packages/grid_client/docs/architecture/decisions/update_deployments_store_path.md

# 2. update_deployment_store_path

Date: 2023-10-22

## Status

Done

## Context

Previously we had no way to group folders so we decided to allow combining related contracts as a folder structure can be used in different project (e.g playground).

## Decision

- We are migrating old key to a new one which allows us to combine related contracts together as a folder grouping.

> - Pattern: `[network]/[twinId]/[projectName]/[moduleName]/[instanceName]/contracts.json` to `[network]/[twinId]/[moduleName]/[projectName]/[instanceName]/contracts.json`

Reviewer: This doesn't shows as a hierarchy in preview as in packages/playground/docs/decisions/update_deployments_store_path.md. Please adjust.

# 2. update_deployment_store_path

Date: 2023-10-22

## Status

Done

## Context

> Previously we didn't have a way to tell that this gateway related to that deployment. So we decided to make some updates will be listed below in order to being able to group all deployment related stuff in a single path treating path as a folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously we didn't have a way to tell that a gateway is related to a certain virtual machine. So we decided to make some updates will be listed below in order to be able to group all deployments' workloads in a similar path hierarchy.
```

e.g

```bash
tfchain
  |_ tfkvstore
    |_ machines
      |_ vm # projectName
         |_ testvm # instanceName
           |_ testvm
           |   |_ contracts.json

>            |_ testvmGateway

Reviewer 2: gateways are not under the machines module.

              |_ contracts.json
```

## Decision

1. For old deployments

>    - We added a migration script will be ablied whenever the user tries to list his own deployments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - We added a migration script will be applied whenever the user tries to list his own deployments
```

>    - Migratable deployments will be getting an update in it's contracts data (if needed)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Migrated deployments will be getting an update in their contracts' data (if needed)
```

>    - Migration will applied once for each contract (Write new contract data then remove the old one)

Reviewer 2: migrating the contracts is done by only one request to update the contract, we don't remove and create a new one. 

the keys stored on the kvstore on tfchain are migrated by creating a new key and removing the old one.

2. For new deployments

>    - Updated projectName to match the new pattern for a deployment called `testvm` in projectName called `vm` the new projectName will be `vm/testvm` instead of `vm`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The projectName has been updated to match the new pattern for the deployment. For example, if the deployment is called `testvm` in the projectName called `vm` the new projectName will be `vm/testvm` instead of `vm`.
```

   - Gateways will be stored in the same previous projectName pattern mentioned above.

>    - Listing will follow the same pattern. After listing all deployments related to a specific projectName (e.g `p1`) let's say we get deployment as follow `[d1, d2]` so we will load deployment of `p1/d1` & `p1/d2` in playground.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Listing will follow the same pattern. After listing all deployments related to a specific projectName (e.g `p1`) let's say we got deployments `[d1, d2]` so we will load the deployment of `d1` from the projectName `p1/d1` and the deployment `d2` is the same in the playground.
```

>    - For kubernetes it doesn't use any projectName so the projectName will be the instanceName itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - For Kubernetes, it doesn't use any projectName so the projectName will be the instanceName itself.
```

## Consequences

> There is no specific consquences related to this issue but an issue appeared <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/threefoldtech/tfchain_graphql/issues/135">tfchain_graphql#135</a>.

Reviewer 2: no need to mention the issue here.
